if you clicked on this video then you
likely feel like you are Shadow banned
on Tik Tok and I know how you feel it is
very very frustrating to have super low
views and feel like you aren't growing
when everyone else is going viral and so
in today's video not only are we going
to talk about the shadow ban what causes
it we're going to focus on how do you
get out of it how do you actually break
through that 200 view barrier and
actually start growing your Tik Tok
[Music]
account and before we get into this full
conversation let me give you some
context and background as to who I am
and why I can consider myself a
reputable resource to talk about this
issue I originally got on Tik Tok in
early 2019 before it really hit its peak
popularity in the US and I blew up in
those early days I had about six videos
in a row that crossed the 1 million view
Mark and thanks in large part to those
viral videos I grew from zero to over
300,000 followers in about a two-month
span and for about the next year to 18
months my Tik Tok was awesome I was
getting hundreds of thousands of views
even on my absolute worst videos the
things that were just absolutely
horrible looking back on them horrible
choreography horrible dancing horrible
lip syncing whatever those were still
getting at least 50 to 100,000 views and
the reality is that account was going
viral so often and it was so easy to
grow my following back then because it
was the early stages again like I said a
minute ago this was before Tik Tok even
blew up which really happened in mid
2020 here in the US and so there were
very few creators who were consistently
uploading there were very few people who
were posting on Tik Tok so if you were
one of the people who was consistently
posting and you were someone who had
something that was unique some sort of
flare some sort of personality if we're
being honest it was really really easy
to grow your following back then but now
for the problem and this is something
that I've talked about multiple times on
previous episodes of build your tribe so
I won't bore your ear off with the whole
backstory but back then on Tik Tok like
I kind of alluded to a second ago all I
was doing was dancing I was just
twerking around and dancing and being
goofy and silly I was was a college
football player at the time so a lot of
my videos featured some of my teammates
or they featured me like wearing my
football pads which was kind of like
this weird thing that people didn't
expect to see right they didn't expect
to see this like masculine man wearing
my football uniform and my shoulder pads
and my helmet yet doing something very
feminine like dancing and moving my hips
and twerking around especially in the
locker room things like that and so I
think that grabbed a lot of a people's
attention and that was me right I'm
silly I'm goofy but that's not what I do
that is part me that's a very small
sliver of me but what I do for a living
is I help people grow their social media
platforms I help them monetize their
followings online that's what I've been
doing for the last seven or eight years
that's what I was doing before Tik Tok
but when I blew up on Tik Tok I had
300,000 followers who didn't know that
and even worse they didn't care about
that they cared about me dancing they
cared to see more funny Goofy dancing
videos and it just wasn't realistic for
me to keep pumping those out and if I
did there would be no real way for me to
monetize those things because that's
just not what I do for a living I'm not
a dance choreographer I'm not a dancer
I'm not a backup dancer I'm someone who
teaches people like you right now how to
grow their following grow their business
grow their brand on social and so when
the pandemic started I took a few months
off of Tik Tok and then I came back and
I was like you know what screw the
dancing thing I'm going to do what I'm
known for I'm going to do what I do for
a living on Tik Tok and I'm going to
post about growing on social media I'm
going to post about growing a business
getting more followers and My Views were
terrible I went from like 100,000
200,000 views on every single video to
maxing out at 5,000 but in reality most
of my videos were less than 1,000 views
despite having 300,000 followers and so
a lot of people looking at that might
say well Brock you're Shadow banned
what's going on is the Tik Tok algorithm
hates you and you've made them mad by
changing what you're posting about and
so you're going to be shadowban you're
never going to grow or get views again
and I should say that I kept posting
like this for about 2 and 1/2 years 2
and 1/2 years of consistently posting
about about business topics about
growing your following growing your
social media growing your personal brand
and despite that consistency despite
trying all the different kinds of Tik
toks you know the viral lip syns the
little cap cut memes everything under
the sun I never really found success and
so while I could have just blamed the
algorithm blamed Tik Tok and said that I
was Shadow band I had to face reality
and the reality was it wasn't the
algorithm that was against me it was my
audience and it makes perfect sense why
my AUD audience wanted dancing content
and I was giving them business growth
advice and so as I've documented on the
podcast before in 2023 I decided to
start a new account brand new fresh from
zero I spent years like I said trying to
grow that 300K account trying to get my
followers to want the content that I was
posting but it was just a losing battle
so I decided ultimately to start a brand
new Tik Tok account that account now has
a couple thousand followers and one of
my big goals for 2024 is to be
consistent and in fact I'm going to to
start with a 90day Sprint so on the time
you're watching this at sometime either
January 2nd or after I'm posting every
single day for the first 90 days of 2024
over on Tik Tok to start to grow that
account and get it moving in the right
direction we'll talk more about that
90day Sprint later but I wanted to also
add this into the Prelude to what we're
going to be talking about today because
I understand what it's like to be at
zero I've spent the last few months
getting a couple hundred views on the
majority of my videos occasionally one
will pop off for a few thousand but I
haven't had anything go Mega viral and I
haven't blown up this new account yet
but because of the experimentation over
the last few months and because I've
spent the last few months studying some
of the top creators over on Tik Tok I've
learned a few things and I'm going to
share them with you today all right so
let's define the word Shadow ban because
one of my biggest pet peeves in the
social media industry is people claiming
to be Shadow ban and then when I ask
them to describe what's going on they
describe something that is not in fact a
shadow ban so by definition a shadow ban
is when a user is blocked without their
knowledge that's key without their
knowledge typically by making their
posts no longer visible to other users
that's what most people focus on most
people focus on hey I'm getting way less
views than before my engagements weigh
down My Views suck the last few months
and so they just say that and they're
like because of that I know I'm Shadow
Bann first let's address the whole
without their knowledge thing often
times when I'm having this conversation
with people they'll say something like
one of my posts got taken down and ever
since then I can't get views or one of
my posts got deleted by the app and ever
since then I can't grow or they'll get a
Content warning or a violation or some
sort of notice and then after that
they're not getting views that by
definition is not a shadow ban you might
call that a ban but that's not a shadow
ban because there's nothing secretive
about it there's nothing without your
knowledge they're literally telling you
often times big bold text deleting the
entire video and sending you a popup
saying this video was deleted for X Y
and Z reason and so if that happens
you're not being shadowbanned you're
just being banned and pretty much every
social media platform has the right to
do that that's part of what you agree to
when you sign up to the platform you're
basically saying yes Tik Tok I will
consume content and create content with
the opportunity to reach millions and
millions of people as long as I abide by
your guidelines and if you don't abide
by their guidelines then they have every
right to take down your content and to
throttle your future content because
they want to be sure that you're not
violating their guidelines again some
other common reasons why people might
think that they are shadowbanned on Tik
Tok is they're stuck below 200 views I
don't know what specifically it is about
200 views but that kind of seems like
the number that a brand new account even
if you're posting consistently you kind
of get stuck at like you get to 223 and
then it stops you get to 198 and then it
stops you get to right around 200 views
and then your views just stop my best
guess is that essentially the Tik Tok
algorithm regardless of how new your
account is or how bad your content is or
how good your content is they initially
show it to roughly 200 people and then
based off those 200 people's engagement
then your content will be shown to more
or less people but when you're first
getting started when people aren't
really interacting with your account
when you don't have a base of followers
to boost your engagement to begin with
it's going to be really hard to get
above that 200 view Mark I can't tell
you how many times I've been scrolling
through my Tik Tok feed and a video will
pop up and like one to two seconds into
into the video I'm like wait I don't
recognize this person what's going on
with this video and then I'll look and
I'll see that it has like two likes and
zero comments and that's an indication
to me that Tik Tok is showing me the
consumer this video in its early stages
and so often times those early stage
videos are a little bit more Rough
Around the Edges they're not the ones
that have already been proven to be high
quality because of their views and
engagement and so I as the consumer am
literally less likely to enjoy this
video that is not to say every time
there are plenty of videos that I see
that have very low likes very low views
I end up watching them and I end up
enjoying them but there's also a lot of
those videos where I'm like what is this
like this is random why is Tik Tok
showing me this and I think the majority
of us who are stuck below this 200 view
Mark that's basically what happens is we
don't have enough followers to get
engagement yet and so when we're shown
to that initial 200 people we don't have
any engagement and so when you don't
have engagement you're less likely to
get more engagement which means you're
less likely to go viral which means
you're less likely to get more views and
more followers and so it's kind of this
cyclical Loop that you can kind of feel
like you're stuck in but again I want to
reiterate that this isn't necessarily a
shadow band because you are getting
views you might not be getting viral
views you might not be getting as many
views as you think you deserve but
you're still getting views another
really common outcome that people point
to as a reason that they claim to be
Shadow ban is low engagement and low
engagement quite literally could not be
farther from a shadow ban a shadow ban
is algorithmic meaning that a shadow ban
is the algorithm deciding to without
telling you block your content from
getting views but engagement is audience
based if people aren't liking your video
it means that they don't like your video
if people aren't commenting on your
video it means they had nothing to say
in response to your video if people
aren't sharing or saving your video it
is because the content didn't resonate
with them enough to generate that kind
of engagement at the end of the day
engagement comes from real people and
the algorithm can't stop those real
people once they have watched your video
from commenting or liking so if you have
200 views and you have like two likes
that means that only 1% of people who
were shown this video actually enjoyed
it now of course you could make the
argument that it's the algorithm's job
to show it to 200 people who would enjoy
it but that's a whole different
conversation that requires a lot more
consistency a lot more dedication to one
Niche and a lot more of a focus on
things like hashtags and keywords to
make sure that you are showing up to the
Right audience but to be totally honest
no algorithm is perfect and so the
likelihood that you're ever going to be
shown to 100% of people who are
interested in your content is just
unrealistic and unlikely but going back
to the original point that I was trying
to make if you have let's say again 200
views and you only have a couple of
likes then the issue isn't the algorithm
the issue is with the audience and if
the audience isn't enjoying your content
then it's on you to make content that
they will enjoy rather than focusing on
the outcomes like low views or low
engagement if you truly believe that you
are Shadow band then it's important to
look at the causes or the potential
causes that you may have committed
knowingly or unknowingly that have led
to these low views and these things are
pretty obvious there are things like
cussing they're things like harassment
illegal activity or anything else that
is frowned upon or even illegal on Tik
Tok now despite what you may hear in the
media I have personally found and many
other large creators have repeated this
as well that Tik Tok is actually the
most stringent or the most PG rated of
all of the social networks I think if
you were to put them all in a spectrum
on one end of the spectrum you have x/
Twitter where you can post just about
anything full nudity they have very
little rules there and then in the
middle you have YouTube and The Meta
platforms like threads and Instagram and
Facebook where you can post like curse
words you can say some things you can
have like partial nudity you can have
like artistic nudity but it's kind of
walk in a fine line where some people
who do that sort of stuff they will get
their account disabled or taken down or
they will get posts removed but it's
kind of a gray area it's not like Let
your freak flag fly rated RX Twitter I
would say it's more like
PG13 and then over on the other side you
have apps like Tik Tok where most of the
time it's PG content often times Tik Tok
is removing content that probably
shouldn't be removed content that is not
graphic is not inappropriate but a
certain amount of people have flagged it
uh maybe for spam reasons for hateful
reasons whatever just it's gotten a lot
of flags sometimes the algorithm like I
mentioned earlier is just very imperfect
and it makes mistakes it removes content
that it thinks is inappropriate or
dangerous or whatever even though it's
truly not so in my personal experience
Tik Tok is the most PG rated platform of
all of the social networks and so it's
very possible that you have posted
something on Tik Tok that was taken down
especially if you've been on Tik Tok for
a few months or a few years posting
consistently it might be worth scrolling
through some of your old content or
trying to find your content violations
or notices just to check and make sure
that you don't have some video from a
year and a half ago that was taken down
or disabled now again often times you
may have a video that was taken down
wrongfully so a video that was removed
because the algorithm made a mistake or
because you had a group of haters show
up on your video and start reporting it
as inappropriate or whatever and so if
that does happen you can appeal it you
can try to get Tik Tok to have like an
actual look at this content a second
look to make sure that it is legal and
that it is approved unfortunately though
if you have had content taken down the
likelihood of your post doing well in
the future especially while that post is
still up or while that uh notice of
violation is still active or open um
it's going to be very unlikely that
you're going to have a video go viral or
that you're going to grow so if that has
happened to you you can try your hardest
to get in contact with Tik Tok to try to
get a hold of their customer support to
try to get your video relooked at and
stamped as good to go but in reality it
might be best to start a new account I
did do an entire episode a few weeks ago
about starting a new account granted
that was primarily focused on starting a
new account on Instagram but a lot of
the same things that we went through in
that video apply to Tik Tok so you might
want to consider starting a new account
on Tik Tok but let's say that you look
through all of your violations all of
your content you've never had anything
taken down you have never gone against
Community guidelines you've never made a
comment or a post that violated Tik
tok's rules but your views and
engagement are low then here are my top
tips for breaking through this so-called
Shadow band which we now know in reality
is likely just low engagement how do you
break through how do you get more views
so that you can get more engagement so
you can get more followers on Tik Tok in
24 let's hop into it number one first
and foremost you have to start with a
hook you seen a viral video Club just
did a study of over 50,000 viral Hooks
and he posted about some of his findings
on his Instagram and Tik Tok account and
I wanted to share some of those with you
the first finding is that generally
speaking the less words you use in your
hook the more views your video will get
but again shorter is usually better so
your goal with your hook should be to be
as concise as possible as you start
adding more and more and more words to
your hook you start to lose people's
attention and you're less likely to get
them to continue watching the video the
second finding is something that I've
reported to you on before which is that
negative hooks perform best and he also
found that neutral hooks perform better
than positive hooks so if you're to rank
the three different kinds of hooks
negative hooks are in first place
neutral hooks are in second place and
positive hooks are in third place
negative hooks are hooks that focus on
negative outcomes or that use negative
words like don't stop or avoid so if I
tell you to stop doing these five things
with your hashtags in 2024 that's a
negative hook the positive version of
that hook would be here's five things to
do with your hashtags in 2024 and the
neutral version might be something like
a question maybe do you use hashtags on
Tik Tok but again the biggest finding
from this study is that negative hooks
performed the best in terms of views one
word of caution that I do want to give
you is that we have found in the insta
clubhub that as you start to overuse
negative Hooks and by over views I mean
consistently using a negative hook in
every single one of your videos The
Views have diminishing returns so over
time you're going to be getting less and
less views than you were originally and
I think that there's a few reasons for
that number one no one likes a Negative
Nancy so if every single one of your
videos is negative people are going to
start to tune you out and the second one
relates back to human behavior and if
you're always saying something is bad if
something is always negative don't do
this stop doing this it will kind of
become White Noise because it doesn't
feel that important anymore if every
single day you're posting three
different things that I shouldn't be
doing then I'm going to lose interest in
your content and it's not going to grab
my attention in the same way so in
summary use negative hooks sometimes not
all the time and then the third big
takeaway from this study of hooks was
analyzing the actual words in the hook
and trying to figure out like what is
the grade equivalent comprehension level
so are these hooks like kindergarten
speak like you were talking to you know
you know like a six-year-old or are
these third grade level seventh grade
level 12th grade level and what they
found is that generally speaking hooks
that were about a fifth grade level
performed the best and got the most
views so a way that you could reverse
engineer this is when you are writing
your script for your Tik Tok videos you
could pop your hook into chat GPT and
then ask chat GPT what grade level of
comprehension this Hook is at or you
could start with chat gbt let's say you
use to help you write hooks you could
put into your prompt for chat GPT to
write a fifth grade level hook for your
script in the insta clubhub we also
recently did a similar study where we
analyzed viral Hooks and we compiled
them into a top 25 list you can find the
link to download that list of top 25
viral hook ideas down in the description
down in the show notes below this
episode again free to download you just
pop in your email and then we'll send
you our top 25 viral hooks as well as
ideas on how you can relate each of
those hooks to your Niche they're kind
of mad lib style so all you have to do
is you know plug in certain words here
and there and then you have an easy
viral hook to add to the beginning of
your video so again if you want to break
through the quote unquote Shadow band if
you want to get more than 200 views on
your Tik Tok videos start with the hook
the second tip that I have for you is
that less is more when it comes to
editing if you regularly watch videos on
YouTube or on Instagram reals you're
used to things that are highly edited
lots of b-roll lots of captions lots of
cuts lots of dynamic Transitions and
things like this but on Tik Tok that's
not really what the average user expects
or prefers over the last few years and
as these user preferences are always
changing we have found that generally
speaking on Tik Tok rather than
recording your video and then popping it
into like Final Cut or cap cut and
chopping it all up and adding all these
fancy Transitions and edits just record
right in Tik Tok and don't add any fancy
edits I think generally speaking speak
the reason for this is that that less
edited content feels more genuine it
feels more authentic it feels more
conversational and that is very much
what the average user of Tik Tok wants
to consume rather than this hyper
curated perfected highly edited piece of
content like you would see on YouTube or
on Instagram and so I hope that this is
great news because that means that it
should be easier hopefully to make
content on Tik Tok you don't have to
hire an editor you don't have to edit
yourself for hours and perfect every
single little thing you can just press
record right in the app talk about
whatever it is you want to talk about
share the things you want to share and
theoretically that should perform better
than if you were to do that and then
edit it all up speaking of editing
though the one big thing that Tik Tok is
not a fan of and I should say the Tik
Tok users are not a fan of is dead space
Dead Space also known as dead air in
radio is when there's a pause like this
it's generally because you're thinking
of what you want to say next or or
because you're speaking conversationally
and in normal human speak when we talk
to each other there are pauses there are
natural Dead Space there's natural luls
there's natural silent moments but when
people are consuming content on Tik Tok
they don't like that and I know this
might sound contradictory to the kind of
genuiness that we were talking about in
the previous tip but there is one thing
that people very much don't like when
they are consuming content on Tik Tok
and that's long pauses oftentimes caused
by big breaths or the infamous
Millennial pause the millennial pause
refers to this very common behavior of
people over the age of 30 which is when
they are starting a video there's a a
pause and often times a breath and it's
because the people over the age of 30
and I'm not I'm not trying to be aist
right now I am borderline Millennial
myself I am very very much someone who
commits the millennial pause all the
time it's something that takes a lot of
practice for me to not do but the
millennial pause is essentially pausing
at the very beginning of your video
often times because as someone over the
age of 30 you want to make sure that
that video is recording and so you kind
of do like a half a second pause to
double check or it's because we over the
age of 30 were used to what phones and
recording was like in the early 2000s
where you did have to wait maybe a half
a second or two in order for the video
to actually start recording but on Tik
Tok the second your thumb skin presses
that record button it starts recording
and so what I like to do is do do my
breath in and then start recording at
the second that I start talking to
hopefully eliminate that Millennial
pause but if you do have a millennial
pause or if you do have a pause at the
end of your video or a pause anywhere in
your video just cut it out just trim it
out in the editing in the post-
production and thankfully Tik Tok has
significantly improved there in app
editing so you can record right in the
app and you'll be able to remove those
little dead spaces and pauses right
there without having to download it and
pull it into a full editing app and chop
it up exactly like we were talking about
not doing in the previous tip my fourth
tip for you to break through the Tik Tok
algorithm and start growing your account
in 2024 is to not use YouTube style
calls to action on YouTube you are very
much used to all of us we're very much
used to watching videos where at some
point in the video maybe at the end
maybe at the beginning after the intro
you're going to hear some and say don't
forget to press the like button make
sure to subscribe for more sometimes
you're even going to see these things
last one to two minutes where they're
making a plea and they're saying I don't
know how the algorithm works but if you
like this video it pushes out to more
people and it really helps my channel
and that's just not necessary on Tik Tok
the average Tik Tok user understands and
it feels kind of like pandering it feels
kind of like below them if you're
telling them don't forget to like this
video don't forget to do this and that
and while you can absolutely have
success with calls to action generally
speaking we have found that it is better
to use calls to action that are more
conversational that feel more open-ended
and they feel less gimmicky less
algorithmic and less like this video If
you enjoyed it don't forget to follow
for more like if I already take this
podcast that you were watching today and
condense it down into something that was
meant for Tik Tok instead of saying
don't forget to save this video if you
learn something new or don't forget to
follow for more I might end the video by
asking an open-ended question like how
long have you been trying to grow on Tik
Tok or do you feel like you're Shadow
banned on Tik Tok or what do you think
about everything I just shared am I
totally off my rocker just things that
are more open-ended and create more
conversation rather than are clearly
meant for the algorithm basically the
idea is on Tik Tok make content that
people want to like if you want more
likes make content that gets people
talking if you want more comments rather
than having to ask them to do those
things create content that naturally
makes them want to do those things and
of all the different forms of Engagement
view time watch rate likes comments save
shares whatever I would recommend
focusing on sharew worthy content the
most and that's my fifth tip for you to
break through the quote unquote Shadow
band and to actually start growing your
account in 2024 focusing on creating
sharew worthy content but what is sharew
worthy content it's content that is
worthy of being shared I know I just had
to say that but of course what actually
is worthy of being shared that's the
more important question here we have
generally found it's one of four things
number one it is something that is
emotional maybe it's really funny maybe
it's really cute maybe it's something
that's really sad and heartfelt
emotional content content that pulls at
the heartstrings and moves people that
is generally highly sharew worthy the
second kind of content that we have
found to be highly sharew Worthy is
inspiring or motivating content that's
one of the reasons that people like
David gogins or Mel Robbins or Gary ve
are so popular is because they often
times share things that are very
powerful in terms terms of inspiration
or motivation that sort of stuff is
highly sharew worthy the Third Kind of
content which I have done entire
podcasts on that is highly sharew Worthy
is controversial content now disclaimer
I am not telling you to intentionally
piss people off make people mad call
people out be rude and appropriate and
get canceled but what I am telling you
is that if you have a strongly held
belief that relates to your Niche share
it on your social media share it on your
Tik Tok because it gets people talking
it gets people sharing it gets people
interacting even the people who disagree
are often times going to leave those
comments letting you know and that helps
you in terms of the algorithm helps you
get more views helps you get more
followers so post controversial stuff if
you believe in it and if it relates to
your Niche and then The Fourth Kind of
content that we find is highly sharew
Worthy is relatable content the type of
stuff where like when you see it in your
feed you say this is so me or this is so
us or this is so my dog or my mom or
whatever and then you send it to your
mom and you're like this is so you or
you send it in the group chat and you're
you're like this is so us this is so us
you send it to your partner and you're
like this is so me these sorts of videos
that are highly relatable that feel like
they are a reflection of ourselves being
displayed or maybe even made fun of by
someone else highly highly sharew worthy
and then tip number six my last tip for
you to grow your Tik Tok to get rid of
the Shadow band and to break through
that 200 view barrier is to post long
form videos in 2021 the top dog the best
kind of content the king of kings on Tik
Tok was a 6 to7 second looping video
that grabbed people's attention and then
it played on a repeat a bunch of times
and so it racked in that view duration
it really spiked the percent of time
that people watched the video but Tik
Tok has learned the algorithm has gotten
smarter and so tricking it into thinking
that you have a super high watch rate
just because your video is 4 seconds
long doesn't necessarily work as well
anymore now what Tik Tok is a big fan of
and this was true for all of 2023 it's
going to be true for 2024 as well is
long form content more than 60 seconds
more than 90 seconds in fact Tik Tok now
allows most users to go up to 10 minutes
and it even allows get this some people
to go up to 30 minutes with their
vertical Tik Tok videos which is
mind-blowing speaking of vertical There
Is Now features where you can actually
rotate into horizontal mode on Tik Tok
because Tik Tok wants to compete with
YouTube Tik Tok recognizes that people
when they're on their phones watch Tik
Tok but when they're on their TVs or
computers they watch YouTube and so Tik
Tok wants to really dominate the mobile
video space the mobile content Space by
really keeping us there for longer and
one of the ways they know they're going
to do this is with long form videos so
make the Tik Tok algorithm Happy by
catering to what it's looking for which
is longer videos do these six things and
then I'll throw in one more bonus stay
consistent just keep posting not once
every week but once every single day
you're welcome to join me in the 90day
Sprint if you are going to do so pop
over to my Tik Tok which of course is
Brock 11 Johnson and leave a comment on
one of my recent videos telling me that
you are going to do the 90day Sprint
with me this is something that I'm doing
to personally challenge myself to stay
consistent for the first 90 days of 2024
on Tik Tok at least one post per day
every single day for the first 3 months
if you want to join me in that if you
want to challenge yourself as well pop
over to my Tik Tok and let me know it's
okay if you start a few days late it's
okay if you need to start you know the
second week of January you need to start
whenever you're listening to this
podcast just let me know pop over to my
Tik Tok leave a comment on one of my
recent videos letting me know that
you're joining me and I would really
appreciate it if you followed me while
you're over there on Tik Tok as well
best of luck growing your Tik Tok in
2024 I hope you're wishing me luck as
well and I will see you over on Tik
Tok
[Music]
o